OK, here's how it should work. The little beastie should have hormones
for each "emotion", and these should be primordial. Most of them are
negative.

In this simple case we make the following assumptions:
1) the robot has an ongoing task (data collection, hoovering, whatever)
2) the robot needs to charge ("hunger")
[3) the robot has some kind of map, which is more accurate in some areas
than others, and knows how accurate the map is in its locality]
4) the robot has noxious stimuli, perhaps of two kinds - gradual
unpleasantness and sudden shocks.

FEAR: noxious stimuli detected. Released slowly, decays slowly
[UNCERTAINTY (UNC): in an unmapped area - release moderate, decay moderate]
PAIN: release rapid, decay rapid
HUNGER: release slowly, decay rapid (comes from batt charge)
HAPPY: doing the required job well. Release slowly, decay moderate
BURBLE: constantly released very slowly, decays slowly

Painful stimuli also release FEAR.

These hormones cascade - singly and directly - into corresponding
"sound urge" hormones.

The robot constantly checks the urge levels, and for each hormone its
level (once above a certain threshold) determines the chance that it
will be triggered. If it is, it plays an appropriate sound and reduces
that sound hormone level by some large percentage - leaving the actual
primary hormone untouched. The intuition here is that the urge to make
a sound is secondary to and triggered by the underlying neurochemical
state, and that succumbing to the urge relieves it without modifying
the underlying state.

The chance mechanism is used to avoid hormones releasing at exactly
the same level all the time - both to avoid periodicity, and to permit
the actual level to be used as a parameter for the sound. 

It's also possible that primary hormone levels may inhibit the chance?
Perhaps "busyness" might inhibit non-burble releases by lowering it
globally?

Then all we do is have two threads. Thread 1 is performing the main code,
updating the robot and doing what it needs to do, and updating the above
levels. Thread 2 is a monophonic synth, doing the following:

while true:
    delay for very short while (~0.1s)
    S = lock, fetch hormone set, unlock
    [h,c] = maximum hormone in set and its concentration
    if rand>(c-threshold)*some factor:
        play sound for hormone h (blocking)
        lock, reduce hormone h, unlock

Sound generation modulation
While each emotion has a sound, the sounds themselves - including
burblage - are modulated by the primary hormone levels. Thus, each
sound is "tinted" by the robot's state. This applies to the timbre
of the sound and the dynamics (particularly when it comes to utterances)

Types of sound
Burbles, cries and utterances.
Utterances - which correspond to short spoken sentences - match
English intonation. A rapid rise-fall at the end is an exclamation,
a rise is an interrogative. 


Extensions:

Some extras are combinations of the above using Zadeh's operators,
treating the emotions as if they were fuzzy logic:

Contentment: happy and very not hungry
Bored: not happy and not hungry?
Trepidation: a bit fearful and uncertain
Brave: fearful and happy

An aside:

Or possibly we could use something like a Lovheim cube?
                        Ser.    Dop.    Noradren.
Shame/humiliation 	Low 	Low 	Low
Distress/anguish 	Low 	Low 	High
Fear/terror 	        Low 	High 	Low
Anger/rage      	Low 	High 	High
Contempt/disgust 	High 	Low 	Low
Surprise 	        High 	Low 	High
Enjoyment/Joy 	        High 	High 	Low
Interest/excitement 	High 	High 	High

or the PAD model, where the three scales are:
pleasure/displeasure
arousal/nonarousal
dominant/submissive



